---
layout: post
mathjax: true
title: "Paxos"
categories: distributed-systems
date: 2020-05-10 00:00:00
---



# Paxos Made Simple

本文是一致性算法 Paxos 的论文 *Paxos Made Simple* 的笔记。

## Introduction

**Paxos** is a family of protocols for **solving consensus** in a network of unreliable processors. Paxos 的目标为：强一致（strongly consistent），网络分割最多导致不可用（partition tolerant），相当程度可用（almost available）。Paxos 的优点是理论上的纯净性，但是工程使用需要做诸多变种。变种的证明又是另一个问题，实现困难。

## The Consensus Algorithm

Assume a collection of process that can propose values. A consensus algorithm **ensures that a single one among the proposed values is chosen**. If a value has been chosen, then processes should be able to learn that chosen value.

### Choosing a Value

Requiring different proposals have different numbers. How this is achieved depends on the implementation. 一个最简单的实现就是使用服务器编号 `host_id * MAX_SEQ_NUM + seq`。

The algorithm operates in the following 2 phases:

- **Phase 1**
  - A **proposer** selects a proposal number $n$ and sends a **prepare request** with number $n$ to a majority of **acceptor**s.
  - If an acceptor receives a prepare request with a number $n$ greater than any prepare request to which it already responded, then it responds with
    - a promise not to accept any more proposal numbered less $n$, and
    - the highest-numbered proposal (if any) that it has accepted.
- **Phase 2**
  - If the proposer receives a response to its prepare requests (numbered $n$) from a majority of acceptors, then it sends an **accept request** to **each** of those acceptors for a proposal numbered $n$ with a value $v$, where $v$ is the value of the highest-numbered proposalamong the responses, or is any value if the responses reported no proposals.
  - If an acceptor receives an accept request for a proposal numbered $n$, it **accepts** the proposal unless it has already responded to a **prepare request** having a number greater than $n$.

### Learning a Chosen Value

To learn that a value has been chosen, a **learner** must find out that a proposal has been accepted by a majority of acceptors.

1. The obvious algorithm is to have **each** acceptor, whenever it accepts a proposal, respond to **all** learners, sending them the proposal. The number responses could be large.
2. We can have the acceptors respond with their acceptances to a **distinguished learner**, which in turn informs the other learners when a value has been chosen. It is also less reliable, since the distinguished learner could fail.

The failure of an acceptor could make it impossible to know whether a majority had accepted a particular proposal. If a learner needs to know whether a value has been chosen, it can have a
proposer issue a proposal.

### Progress

It’s easy to construct a scenario in which two proposers each keep issuing a sequence of proposals with increasing numbers, none of which are ever chosen.

To **guarantee progress**, a **distinguished proposer** (some sort of leader) must be selected as the only one to try issuing proposals. The famous result of *F. L. P* implies that **a reliable algorithm for electing a proposer must use either randomness or real time**.

Lamport 这段话比较令人费解，我个人的理解是：Paxos 本身无法保证不会出现僵持的情况（*progress not ensured*），所以需要选一个 leader 来负责 propose value。使用 Paxos 来选择一个 leader 理论上也可能遇到僵持的情况，最简单的方法就是每次提 propose 一个 value 就随机 idle 一段时间。

